In this video,
we'll cover testing Spring MVC Web Controllers.
Here's the problem.
How can we test Spring MVC Web Controllers?
Like, how can we create HTTP requests
and send those to the controller?
And how can we verify the HTTP response?
Such as the status code, the view name
and the model attributes.
How can we accomplish this?
Well, spring has testing support for this scenario.
So, Spring provides mock object support for web,
REST APIs and so on.
And for testing the controllers,
you can make use of MockMvc.
It provides Spring MVC processing of the request
and the response.
And the nice thing about it is that,
there's no need to run a server, embedded or external.
They actually mark the container for you.
Here's the development process.
In the first step, we're going to add the annotation,
AutoConfigureMockMvc.
Then, we'll inject the MockMvc into our controller test.
Next, we'll perform the web request
and then we'll define the expectations.
And then, finally, we'll assert the results.
Now, for this example,
we'll make use of a very basic controller,
called the grade book controller.
It's very simple.
It has one request mapping
for slash and it handles a get request.
As a method here
and we simply return the view name of index.
Very simple, very straightforward.
And what we'd like to do, is write an actual test
for this controller.
Here's the coding for our test,
our grade book controller test.
Now, in step one, we're going to autoconfigure
by making use the annotation, AutoconfigureMockMvc.
And then, in step two,
we'll inject the MockMvc into our controller test.
And then, in step three, we'll perform the web request.
So, up in the top right,
we have that very simple controller that we looked
at on the previous slide.
And now, here, we'll say mockMvc.perform.
So, I'll make some type of web request.
I'll use this, MockMvcRequestBuilders.get.
So, I'm making a get request to slash,
that's for that controller up top.
Then, in step four, we'll define the expectations
and expect status are okay and return.
Effectively, here, we're making use of the mock
to perform web request.
It returns at MvcResult.
So, we can use that MvcResult and get the model and view.
And then, in step five, we can assert the results.
So here, I'll say, "ModelAndViewAssert.assertViewName."
I pass under model and view and I say, "index."
So, what I'm doing here, is I'm basically saying, "Hey,
we made a call to this controller.
Did it return the view name of index?"
And, we can look at the code in the top right.
And, we can verify that,
that's what the actual controller code should return.
And there's more advanced features that we can make use of.
We can also assert model attributes.
So, we can retrieve the model attribute objects
and then perform some fine-grained asserts
on those given objects.
We'll get to that later in the course
but for now we just kind of cover this basic example.
Okay. So this covers the basic coding.
Let's go ahead and move
into the next video and let's start writing some code.